---
layout: page
title: About
permalink: /about/
---

# Who We Are

[**Dr Andrew Lensen**](andrewlensen.com) is a widely respected and experienced AI researcher. He has a PhD in computer science from Te Herenga Waka—Victoria University of Wellington, where he is currently a Senior Lecturer and the Programme Director of Artificial Intelligence. Andrew’s research interests include, but are not limited to: explainable AI, genetic programming, unsupervised learning (nonlinear dimensionality reduction), and real-world/interdisciplinary AI in New Zealand. As well as the social and ethical implications of AI, and aspects of deep learning, such as embedding/manifold learning methods. Andrew has an extensive research background, which includes highlights such as examining the application of explainable AI for assault sentence prediction, using computer vision to identify individual kākā to aid in conservation efforts, and exploring genetic programming for manifold learning. In addition to this Andrew has been a longstanding and trusted partner to many leading media outlets, providing well-rounded and incisive commentary when AI makes the news. Andrew has assisted a number of private and public sector organisations as a key advisor on important AI projects, and as a trusted voice. Andrew is deeply driven by a desire to ensure that the implementation of AI in Aotearoa is fair, ethical and equitable and ensures the best possible outcomes for all parties.

**Chris McGavin** is a digital and technology policy professional with extensive experience working on AI ethics, regulation and policy. He holds a Master’s degree in law which he completed by thesis on the topic of AI regulation with a particular focus on AI harms and global regulatory instruments. Chris has considerable expertise across a variety of global AI policy efforts, such as EU’s AI Act as well as Aotearoa’s own AI policy environment. He previously worked at the Brainbox Institute, Aotearoa’s leading digital policy think-tank where he contributed to and led a number of complex projects including an extensive examination of Aotearoa’s AI landscape for the Global Index on Responsible AI, development of Aotearoa’s first comprehensive AI policy tracker, and crucial work on the Transparency Initiatives Portal in conjunction with the Action Coalition on Meaningful Transparency and Christchurch Call. His commentary on AI has been published in leading publications such as the National Business Review. Chris is a visiting scholar at Victoria University of Wellington’s Computer Science and Engineering Department where his research is focused on AI regulation, policy and ethics. He is open to research partnerships across a number of disciplines. Chris is deeply enthusiastic about ensuring that Aotearoa learns from, instead of repeating, errors made in AI implementation in other jurisdictions. 
